<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?><rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><channel><title>Governing Board Meeting on ASAP Discovery Consortium</title><link>https://asapdiscovery.org/tags/governing-board-meeting/</link><description>Recent content in Governing Board Meeting on ASAP Discovery Consortium</description><generator>Hugo</generator><language>en-us</language><lastBuildDate>Mon, 29 Oct 2018 00:00:00 +0000</lastBuildDate><atom:link href="https://asapdiscovery.org/tags/governing-board-meeting/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/><item><title>October 29, 2018 Joint Governing/Advisory Board Meeting</title><link>https://asapdiscovery.org/consortium/minutes/2018-10-29-minutes/</link><pubDate>Mon, 29 Oct 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://asapdiscovery.org/consortium/minutes/2018-10-29-minutes/</guid><description>&lt;h2 id="minutes">Minutes: 
 &lt;a href="#minutes">
 &lt;svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-link" viewBox="0 0 16 16">
 &lt;path d="M6.354 5.5H4a3 3 0 0 0 0 6h3a3 3 0 0 0 2.83-4H9c-.086 0-.17.01-.25.031A2 2 0 0 1 7 10.5H4a2 2 0 1 1 0-4h1.535c.218-.376.495-.714.82-1z"/>
 &lt;path d="M9 5.5a3 3 0 0 0-2.83 4h1.098A2 2 0 0 1 9 6.5h3a2 2 0 1 1 0 4h-1.535a4.02 4.02 0 0 1-.82 1H12a3 3 0 1 0 0-6H9z"/>
 &lt;/svg>
 &lt;/a>
&lt;/h2>&lt;p>Attending: All PIs, both governing board members, and most advisory board members, via Zoom.&lt;/p></description></item><item><title>October 11, 2018 Governing Board Meeting</title><link>https://asapdiscovery.org/consortium/minutes/2018-10-11-minutes/</link><pubDate>Thu, 11 Oct 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://asapdiscovery.org/consortium/minutes/2018-10-11-minutes/</guid><description>&lt;h2 id="agenda">Agenda: 
 &lt;a href="#agenda">
 &lt;svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-link" viewBox="0 0 16 16">
 &lt;path d="M6.354 5.5H4a3 3 0 0 0 0 6h3a3 3 0 0 0 2.83-4H9c-.086 0-.17.01-.25.031A2 2 0 0 1 7 10.5H4a2 2 0 1 1 0-4h1.535c.218-.376.495-.714.82-1z"/>
 &lt;path d="M9 5.5a3 3 0 0 0-2.83 4h1.098A2 2 0 0 1 9 6.5h3a2 2 0 1 1 0 4h-1.535a4.02 4.02 0 0 1-.82 1H12a3 3 0 1 0 0-6H9z"/>
 &lt;/svg>
 &lt;/a>
&lt;/h2>&lt;ul>
&lt;li>October meeting draft agenda and start time&lt;/li>
&lt;li>January meeting location&lt;/li>
&lt;li>Maat hiring&lt;/li>
&lt;li>Slack&lt;/li>
&lt;li>Funding processing update/onboarding update&lt;/li>
&lt;li>Involvement with science meetings (subprojects) and project planning&lt;/li>
&lt;li>Discuss blog posts? Yes, just get sub-groups to do brief updates after meetings; better for keeping people up to date.&lt;/li>
&lt;/ul>
&lt;h2 id="minutes">Minutes: 
 &lt;a href="#minutes">
 &lt;svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-link" viewBox="0 0 16 16">
 &lt;path d="M6.354 5.5H4a3 3 0 0 0 0 6h3a3 3 0 0 0 2.83-4H9c-.086 0-.17.01-.25.031A2 2 0 0 1 7 10.5H4a2 2 0 1 1 0-4h1.535c.218-.376.495-.714.82-1z"/>
 &lt;path d="M9 5.5a3 3 0 0 0-2.83 4h1.098A2 2 0 0 1 9 6.5h3a2 2 0 1 1 0 4h-1.535a4.02 4.02 0 0 1-.82 1H12a3 3 0 1 0 0-6H9z"/>
 &lt;/svg>
 &lt;/a>
&lt;/h2>&lt;p>Attending: All PIs except Shirts, and both industry members, Thomas Fox and Katharina Meier&lt;/p></description></item></channel></rss>